1. Stored Objects: Anything that you do with create command is stored object. Objects that are stored in the database.
Maximum of 30 characters
ex. tables, Indexes

2.Views:  present in all RDBMS, some of dbms also
Why do we create a view?
i. For security purposes, if we want other user just to have select privileges,on certain rows and columns. thus to restrict access to columns and rows we can use views.
ii. handle to tables
iii. view is a HD pointer(stores address of a table) also know as locator.
iv. View is used for indirect access to table. 
v. Views is a stored query. Views are stored in system table(system table are also views) in compiled format-> benefits of compiled format
	a. execution is fast
	b. source code is hidden.
vi. View does not contain data, it only has access to it, you can create as many view as you want, if necessary create separate views for different users.


3. command to create a view:
create view view_name ....;

CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW VIEW_NAME AS SELECT .......;

4. How to see views?
SHOW TABLES; -- show table and views but don't tell which is table or which is view.
show full tables; -- show which is table which is view

To see select statement on which view is based
show create view <view_name>;

5. Using view with DML operations?

DML operations can be performed on a view & DML operations done on a view will affect the base table.
Constraints that are specified on the table will always be enforced if you insert via the view.
Using view we can insert only those columns that are in Select clause of view.

ii. 
create or replace view v1
as
select * from employee where deptno = 1;

insert into v1 values (6,'F',6000,2); -- where clause comes into picture only with select.

If you want to insert or update or delete only when where clause condition fulfills

create or replace view v1
as
select * from employee where deptno = 1 with check option;

insert into v1 values (4, 'H', 5200, 2); -- will give error

This is used to enforce different checks for different users.

6. How to drop a view?

drop view v1; -- only owner can drop view

7. Type of views that are allowed.

i. view based on computed column/expression/function are allowed
ii. In mysql you can only SELECT from this view.
iii. DML operations not allowed.

8. Is view based on joins allowed?

CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW v1
    -> as
    -> select Cname, Sname from CUSTOMERS, SALESPEOPLE WHERE
    -> CUSTOMERS.Snum = SALESPEOPLE.Snum;

9. Views based on views is allowed?
i. To extend the limits of SQL, union of greater than 255 select statements, 255 single row functions.
ii. to simplify wirting of complex SELECT statements, join of 40 tables.
iii. Complex queries can be stored in view definition. 
